# mt2007

##1. 
A precision clock and a small laser are attached to a straight rod of length $$L=20\:\text{m}$$ on
earth then shot out into space at velocity $$v= 0.9c$$. It is observed by a scientist on the space station as it passes by and heads off to parts unknown.

**(a)** What does the observer measure as the length of the rod?

**(b)** The observer’s clock ticks off 10 seconds during the time she watches the rod. How
long a time interval does the clock attached to the rod show during her 10 seconds?

**(c)** As the rod is approaching the space station the laser is fired. Use the Lorentz velocity transformation to determine the velocity (in terms of c) that the observer measures for the speed of the laser light. (**Partial credit** if you can get a reasonable answer via intuition.)

##2.
The neutral Λ particle can decay into a proton and a pion, that is, $$\Lambda\to{p}+\pi^-$$. The rest
mass of the proton is $$m_p=938.3\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$ and the rest mass of the charged pion is $$m_{\pi}=140\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$. In a certain experiment it is observed that the $$p$$ and $$\pi^-$$ leave the decay moving in the same direction, the proton with momentum $$p_p=581\:\text{MeV}/c$$ and the pion with $$p_π=256\:\text{MeV}/c$$. Determine the rest mass of the $$\Lambda$$.

##3.
Physicists of the mid- to late-19th century were puzzled by the disagreement between
theoretical prediction and experimental observation of spectral radiancy versus frequency in blackbody radiation, as shown in the figure. Explain why Planck's postulate of quantization of energy solved the problem. You can use words, physics, math, or any combination that explains as completely as possible, but note that this is not intended to be an essay question. Be brief and to the point!

##4.
A photon of wavelength $$\lambda=.02\unicode{xC5}$$ Compton scatters off an electron at rest. The
scattered photon is observed to leave the interaction at an angle of $$\theta=50^{\circ}$$ with respect to the direction of the incoming photon.

**(a)** Find the kinetic energy of the scattered electron.

**(b)** Find the velocity (in terms of $$c$$) of the scattered electron.

##5.
A certain star has a surface temperature of $$T=5700\:\text{K}$$ and a radius of $$R=7\times10^8\:\text{m}$$.
Photons emitted from the star have a mean wavelength $$\lambda_{\text{mean}}=5700\unicode{xC5}$$. An observing station orbits the star at a distance of $$D=1.5\times10^{11}\:\text{m}$$.

**(a)** Find the total power radiated by this star.

**(b)** When an observer on the station looks at the star, how many photons per second enter
his eye? Assume that this observer’s pupil (opening to the eye) has a radius of $$R_p=1\:\text{mm}$$.

**(c)**  It is observed that when light from the star of wavelength $$\lambda_{\text{mean}}$$ strikes a certain metal target, electrons are emitted in a process that we call the photoelectric effect. The most energetic
of these electrons carry kinetic energy $$K_e=1.2\:\text{eV}$$. Find the work function of this metal.

**(d)** What would be a good name for the observing station?