# mt2002

##1.
Numbers...
**(a)** A positron has kinetic energy $$K=20\:\text{MeV}$$. Find its total energy and momentum.

**(b)** An electron has total energy $$E=2\:\text{MeV}$$. Find its velocity as a fraction of $$c$$.

**(c)** A photon has energy $$E_\gamma=4\:\text{eV}$$. Find its wavelength in Angstroms. Also, is it in the visible?

**(d)** A neutral $$D^0$$ particle can decay into a two charged Kaons, that is, $$D^0\to{K^+}K^-$$. In the rest
frame of the $$D^0$$, what is the kinetic energy of each of the Kaons? A D0 has rest mass $$1864\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$, and charged Kaons have rest mass $$494\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$.

##2.
A precision clock and a small laser are attached to a straight rod of length $$L=20\:\text{m}$$ on earth then shot out into space at velocity $$v=0.9c$$. It is observed by a scientist on the space station as it passes by and heads off to parts unknown.

**(a)** What does the observer measure as the length of the rod?

**(b)** The observer’s clock ticks off 10 seconds during the time she watches the rod. How long a time interval does the clock attached to the rod show during her 10 seconds?

**(c)** As the rod is approaching the space station the laser is fired. What velocity (in terms of $$c$$) does the observer measure for the speed of the laser light?

**(d)** The clock and laser are connected so that when the clock reads that exactly 100 seconds have elapsed since the laser physically passed the station, it fires a laser pulse back towards the observer. How long after the laser passes the observer does she see the pulse?

##3.
A certain star has a surface temperature of $$T=5700\:\text{K}$$ and a radius of $$R=7\times10^8\:\text{m}$$. Photons emitted from the star have a mean wavelength $$\lambda_{\gamma}=5700\:\unicode{xC5}$$ Angstroms. An observing station orbits the star at a distance of $$D=1.5\times10^{11}\:\text{m}$$.

**(a)** Find the total power radiated by this star.

**(b)** When an observer on the station looks at the star, how many photons per second enter his eye? Assume that this observer’s pupil (opening to the eye) has a radius of $$R_p=1\:\text{mm}$$.

**(c)** It is observed that when light from the star strikes a certain metal target, electrons are emitted in a process that we call the photoelectric effect. The most energetic of these electrons carry kinetic energy $$K_e=5.2\:\text{eV}$$. Find the work function of this metal.

##4.
Show that the relativistic equation for the kinetic energy of a particle reduces to the classical definition when $$v\ll{c}$$.
