# mt2003

##1.
A laser is attached to the nose of a spaceship traveling at $$V=0.8c$$ toward Mars. (The laser points along the direction of motion.) Find, **using the Lorentz transformation**, the velocity of the laser light as seen by an observer on Mars.


##2. 
A number of electrons move down an accelerator line in a long, thin bunch. An observer in the laboratory measures these electrons to have a relativistic $$\gamma=7$$, and measures the length of the bunch to be $$L=1\:\text{m}$$.

**(a)** What is the velocity of these electrons? State your answer in terms of $$c$$.

**(b)** What is the proper length of the bunch, that is, the length as measured in a frame at rest with respect to the electrons?

**(c)** What is the kinetic energy of these electrons?

**(d)** The accelerator parameters are changed so the electrons now move at $$v=0.8c$$. The bunch of
electrons is still measured to have length $$L=1\:\text{m}$$ in the lab. A second identical bunch of electrons is sent in the opposite direction up the accelerator line. How long is the first bunch of electrons as measured in a frame at rest with respect to second bunch?


##3.
The first three spectral series of Hydrogen are the Lyman, Balmer, and Paschen series respectively. The lines in the Lyman series range from about 950 to 1200 Angstroms ($$\unicode{xC5}$$). The lines in the Paschen series range from about $$10,000$$ to $$18,750\:\unicode{xC5}$$. The wavelengths in any series can be determined from the Rydberg equation
$$
	\frac{1}{\lambda}=R_H\left(\frac{1}{n^2}-\frac{1}{m^2}\right)
$$
where $$R_H=1.09737\times10^7\:m^{-1}$$ and $$m>n$$.

**(a)** What is the longest wavelength in the Balmer series? State your answer in Angstroms.

**(b)** What is the energy of the shortest wavelength in the Balmer series? State your answer in $$\text{eV}$$.

**(c)** Suggest a reason that the Balmer series was discovered long before the other two.


##4.
A spherical $$100\:\text{W}$$ light bulb has a radius $$R=5\:\text{cm}$$. Assume that its surface radiates
isotropically like a blackbody.

**(a)** Find the surface temperature of the bulb.

**(b)** Comment on how hot your part (a) answer is, by comparing it to, say, the freezing or boiling point of water.

**(c)** Assuming all photons emitted have an energy of $$3\:\text{eV}$$, find the number of photons per second
that strike a $$50\:\text{cm}^2$$ hand placed a distance $$5\:\text{m}$$ from the center ofas an area $$A=50\:\text{cm}^2$$, and place it so that its surface is uniformly $$5\:\text{cm}$$ from the bulb. Find the temperature of the surface of your hand given the assumption that it absorbs and emits like a blackbody.


##5.
A photon of wavelength $$\lambda=0.02\:\unicode{xC5}$$ Compton scatters off an electron at rest. The scattered photon is observed to leave the interaction at an angle of $$\theta=50^{\circ}$$ with respect to the direction of the incoming photon. Find the kinetic energy of the scattered electron?
