# mt2016

## 1.
The Interplanetary Hyperloop is a long, straight trube that connects a point on Earth's orbit with a point out beyond Pluto's orbit.  The proper length of the Interplanetary Hyperloop is $$6.000\times10^{12}\:\text{m}$$. Passenger cars, which have a proper length of $$1234\:\text{m}$$, travel in both directions through the Interstellar Hyperloop.  **NOTE**: all answers should be a number with appropriate units.

**(a)** A supervisor in the control tower (that is fixed to the Interstellar Hyperloop tube halfway between its ends) observes a passenger car approaching at $$0.8000c$$.. What length does she measure the car to be?

**(b)** The supervisor measures the speed of the passenger car to be a constant $$0.8000c$$ for the entire end-to-end trip.  According to a clock on the wall of the control tower, how long (in time) does it take for the passenger car to make the trip?  Ignore initial acceleration and final deceleration.

**(c)** How long (in time) does the end-to-end trip take as measured by a passenger onboard the passenger car?  Ignore initial acceleration and final deceleration.

**(d)** Two passenger cars approach each other, each travelling at $$0.2468c$$ as measured by the supervisor in the control tower.  What length does someone in one of the cars measure as the length of the other car?


## 2.
The R-on, of the rest mass $$m_R=40.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$, the S-on, of the rest mass $$m_S=10.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$, the T-on, of rest mass $$m_T=30.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$, and the U-on, of rest mass $$m_U=0\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$ are particles in an alternate universe. (Yes, the U-on has zero rest mass.)  **NOTE**: all answers should be a number with appropriate units.

**(a)** A neutroal R-on decays symettrically to two charged S-ons: $$R^0\to{S}^++S^-$$. Find the speed of one of the S-ons as observed in the rrest frame of the R-on.

**(b)** A charged R-on zooming through the lab at speed $$V$$ decays to a T-on and a U-on:  $$R^+\to{T}^++U^0$$. The U-on leaves the decay in the exact same direction of the R-on. It is observed (in the lab frame) that the velocity of the T-on is zero.  Find the speed $$V$$ of the R-on through the lab.  **NOTE**: the T-on and U-on do not carry the same amount of energy away from the decay.


##3.
When heated to a temperature of $$9876\:\text{K}$$, a sphere of radius $$10^{-3}\:\text{m}$$ radiates like a blackbody.  **NOTE**: all answers should be a number with appropriate units.

**(a)** Determine the power radiated by the sphere.

**(b)** A $$2.000\:\text{cm}$$ by $$2.000\:\text{cm}$$ target is placed a distance $$1.234\:\text{m}$$ from the sphere.  How many Joules of energy per second strike the target?

**(c)** Another glowing sphere is found to radiate $$6540\:\text{W}$$. Find the number of photons emitted per second from the sphere, assuming that the photons emitted from the sphere can be taken to all be of wavelegnth $$293.0\:\text{nm}$$
