# mt2006

##1.
The Starship Enterprise is approaching an intergalactic tunnel. Admiral Kirk, who is
standing on the walkway above the entrance to tunnel, sees the Enterprise approaching at velocity $$V_{\text{SE}}=0.8c$$. Kirk measures the length of the Enterprise to be $$L_{\text{SE}}=200\:\text{m}$$. He measures the length of the tunnel to be $$L_T=10^{11}\:\text{m}$$.

**(a)** How long (in meters) is the Enterprise as measured in its rest frame?

**(b)** How long (in meters) is the tunnel as measured in its rest frame?

**(c)** How long (in meters) is the tunnel as measured by an observer on board the Enterprise?

**(d)** How long (in seconds) after the nose of the Enterprise enters the tunnel does Kirk see the nose of the Enterprise come out of the other end of the tunnel?

**(e)** How long (in seconds) after the nose of the Enterprise enters the tunnel does
an observer on board the Enterprise see the nose of the Enterprise come out of the other end of the tunnel?

##2.
A neutral $$B$$ particle decays into a pair of charged $$D$$ particles, that is, $$B^0\to{D^+}{D^–}$$. The decay is symmetric, that is, in the rest frame of the $$B^0$$ the $$D$$ particles go off in exactly opposite directions with exactly the same kinetic energy. The rest mass of the $$B^0$$ is $$m(B^0)=5279\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$ and the rest mass of the charged D is $$m(D^\pm)=1869\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$.

**(a)** As viewed in the rest frame of the $$B^0$$, find the velocity of the two $$D$$ particles. State your answer as a fraction times the speed of light.

**(b)** The $$B^0$$ has non-zero kinetic energy as viewed in the lab. Consider the case in which the two $$D$$ particles leave the decay point along the line that the $$B^0$$ had been traveling. If one of the $$D$$ particles is observed in the lab frame to have velocity equal to ZERO, find the velocity of the other $$D$$ as measured in the lab frame. State your answer as a fraction times the speed of light.

##3.
A 20-W monochromatic light bulb emits photons of wavelength $$\lambda=50\:\unicode{xC5}$$ isotropically. The bulb is placed a distance $$D=4\:\text{m}$$ from a Lithium target of cross-sectional area $$2\:\text{cm}$$ by $$3\:\text{cm}$$. The work function of Lithium is $$\phi_{0}=2.42\:\text{eV}$$.

**(a)** Is the light from this bulb visible to humans? Justify your answer.

**(b)** Find the energy (in $$\text{eV}$$) of one of the photons radiated by the bulb.

**(c)** Find the number of photons per second radiated by the bulb.

**(d)** Find the photoelectric current arising in the target, assuming ideal conditions. Express
your answer in electrons per second.

**(e)** If the energy of the radiated photons is increased, but all other aspects of this setup remain the same, will the photoelectric current increase, decrease, or stay the same? Justify your answer.

##4.
A photon of energy $$E_\gamma=2\:\text{MeV}$$ Compton scatters off a quasi-free electron in a target at an angle $$\theta=180^{\circ}$$.

**(a)** Find the energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of the scattered photon.

**(b)** Find the total energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of the electron after the scatter occurs.

**(c)** Using only the constants on the first page of this exam, show that the value of the Compton wavelength given on the first page is about right.
