# mt2005

##1.
At the Galactic Olympics, all competitors are required to move at close to light speed. A pole vaulter picks up a pole of length $$L=5\:\text{m}$$ and then races down the $$100\:\text{m}$$ runway towards the vaulting pit. Stationary spectators in the stands measure her velocity to be $$v_{\text{PV}}=0.8c$$. She holds the out in front of her, that is, aligned with her direction of motion.

**(a)** How long (in meters) does the pole appear to the pole vaulter as she runs down the runway?

**(b)** How long (in meters) does the pole appear to the stationary spectators as she runs by?

**(c)** How long (in seconds) does her run take as she measures it?

**(d)** How long (in seconds) does her run take when measured by the stationary spectators?

**(e)** As the pole vaulter travels down the runway, a sprinter runs past her in the opposite
direction. The stationary spectators measure his velocity to be $$v_s=0.65c$$. How fast is he moving as measured by the pole vaulter?

##2.
Photons and such...

**(a)** What is the wavelength (in $$\unicode{xC5}$$) of a photon of energy $$E=2\:\text{eV}$$?

**(b)** A photon of energy $$E=3\:\text{MeV}$$ undergoes pair production, which results in the creation of an electron and a positron. What kinetic energy (in $$\text{eV}$$) does the electron and positron each acquire? Assume the decay is symmetric.

**(c)** A photon of wavelength $$\lambda=0.06\:\unicode{xC5}$$ Compton scatters off a quasi-free electron in a metal. If the photon is observed to be scattered at angle $$\theta=30^{\circ}$$ from the original photon direction, what is the wavelength (in $$\unicode{xC5}$$) of the scattered photon?

**(d)** A photon of wavelength $$\lambda=0.06\:\unicode{xC5}$$ Compton scatters off a quasi-free electron in a metal. If the wavelength of the scattered photon is $$\lambda'=0.09\:\unicode{xC5}$$, what is the kinetic energy (in $$\text{eV}$$) of the electron after the scatter takes place?

**(e)** In class I got slightly stuck working out a number for the Rydberg energy
$$E_0=\frac{m_e(ke^2)^2}{2\hbar^2}$$. You might recall my problem was remembering to convert from Joules to eV. But I would normally never do this computation in SI units – too complicated! Better to use “particle physicist” numbers, like on the first page of this test. Use those numbers to find a value (in $$\text{eV}$$) for the Rydberg energy. You may have to use some constants to determine the value of other constants that are needed.

##3.
On June 30, 1908 residents in and near the Tunguska River Valley in Siberia observed a brilliant flash in the sky followed by an earthquake. It is now widely accepted that this event, which uprooted trees over a radius of $$30$$ to $$40\:\text{km}$$, was caused by the explosion in the atmosphere of a stony “impactor” of radius approximately $$R=40\:\text{m}$$. Viewed from $$100\:\text{km}$$ away, the flash was estimated to have been more than 100 times brighter than the sun, that is, the power flux was about $$2\times10^5\:\text{W}/\text{m}^2$$.

**(a)** Assume that the kinetic energy of this impactor was released in a time span of 7 seconds. What total energy (in $$\text{J}$$) was released?

**(b)** Assume that the impactor radiated like a blackbody at the instant of the explosion. Use the data above to find the approximate surface temperature (in $$\text{K}$$) of the impactor at that moment.

##4.
We have seen that the kinetic energy of a quantum particle is given by the difference
between its total energy and its rest energy: $$K=E-E_0$$. Show that this expression gives the
relationship $$K=\frac{1}{2}mv^2$$ in the classical limit $$v^2\ll{c}^2$$.
