# mt2012

##1.
A $$\phi$$ particle is shot directly down the length of a tube that is $$10\:\text{m}$$ long as measured in our lab. We measure the speed of the $$\phi$$ to be $$0.9c$$. The $$\phi$$ decays to two kaons ($$\phi\to{K}^+K^-$$) inside the tube.

**(a)** In the rest frame of the $$\phi$$, what is the total energy of one of the kaons?

**(b)** In the rest frame of the $$\phi$$, what is the kinetic energy of one of kaons?

**(c)** In the rest frame of the $$\phi$$, what is the speed of one of the kaons?

**(d)** In the rest frame of $$\phi$$, what is the length of the tube?

**(e)** In the rest frame of $$\phi$$, how long would it take for the $$\phi$$ to travel from one of the tube to the other?

**(f)** How long would it take for the $$\phi$$ to travel from one of the tube to the other as measured by us?

**(g)** If the $$\phi$$ decays to two kaons so that one kaon is thrown directly forward in the direction of the $$\phi$$’s motion and the other directly backwards, how fast is the forward-going kaon traveling as measured by us?

**(h)** The $$\omega$$ particle does not decay to a $$K^+K^-$$ pair. Give a brief reason why this decay is not allowed.


##2.
In July of 1994, fragments of the comet Shoemaker Levy-9 struck Jupiter. Each impact resulted in fireball of intense energy. The diameter of the fireball versus time after impact is shown for fragment G.

**(a)** If the temperature of the fireball was approximately
$$2000\:\text{K}$$ after $$40\:\text{s}$$, about how hot was it after $$5\:\text{s}$$? Assume the fireball was of uniform temperature at any moment.

**(b)** What was the intensity (power per unit area) received at the top of Earth’s atmosphere from the fragment G fireball? In July, 1994, Jupiter and Earth were approx. $$5\:\text{AU}$$ apart.

**(c)** Assume that all photons emitted by the fragment G fireball had wavelength equal to $$300\:\text{nm}$$, the peak of the spectrum. How many photons per second were emitted by the fireball?


##3.
We have seen that the Dirac equation ($$E^2=p^2c^2+m^2c^4$$, where $$m$$ is rest mass) provides a relativistic relationship for momentum that works as well for massless photons as it does for particles that have mass. We have also seen, however, that any relativistic description must also work in the low velocity, classical regime. Show that the Dirac equation reduces to the classical definition of momentum ($$p=mv$$) in the low velocity limit, that is, in the limit $$v\ll{c}$$.

##4.
Light of wavelength $$\lambda_0$$ illuminates a surface and ejects photoelectrons of maximum kinetic energy $$2\:\text{eV}$$. When the wavelength is decreased to $$\lambda_0/2$$, the maximum photoelectron kinetic energy is observed to be $$5\:\text{eV}$$.

**(a)** What maximum kinetic energy will be observed if the wavelength of the light is decreased to $$\lambda_0/4$$?

**(b)** What wavelength of light must be used to eject photoelectrons from the surface that are traveling at $$0.002c$$?

