# mt2015

##1.
The Starship Enterprise zooms past Earth. You measure its speed as $$0.13c$$. Through the window on the engineering deck you can see (with really good binoculars) the 13-meter-long ladder that Scotty uses to change the light bulb above the warp core. (**NOTE**: all answers are numbers.)

**(a)** The ladder is lying flat on the floor. How long do you measure it to be?

**(b)** You see Hans Solo piloting the Millennium Falcon directly toward the Enterprise, also at a
speed of $$0.13c$$ relative to you. What does Hans Solo measure as the length of the ladder?

**(c)** Scotty tilts the ladder against a wall in order to change the bulb. Before walking under it (not
today, Scotty!) he notices that the ladder makes an angle of $$30^{\circ}$$ with respect to the floor. At what angle with respect to the floor do you see the ladder?


##2.
The work function for a triskaidekium, a new metal alloy, is $$13\times10^{–1}\:\text{eV}$$. A bulb is made by placing a filament inside an opaque spherical enclosure of radius $$0.031\:\text{m}$$; when current runs through the filament the bulb gets hot and radiates $$13\:\text{W}$$, like a black body. A $$1.3\:\text{cm}$$ by $$1.3\:\text{cm}$$ square triskaidekium target is placed $$13\:\text{m}$$ from the bulb so that photons strike the surface at a $$90^{\circ}$$ angle. (**NOTE**: all answers except for (b) and (g) are numbers.)

**(a)** The photons radiated by the bulb are just sufficient to liberate photoelectrons from a smooth, clean triskaidekium surface. Find the wavelength of the photons.

**(b)** Are the photons that radiate from the bulb visible to humans? Explain briefly.

**(c)** Find the maximum speed of photoelectrons liberated from the triskaidekium.

**(d)** Find the number of photons per second radiated from the bulb.

**(e)** Find the number of photons per second that strike the triskaidekium target.

**(f)** Find the temperature of the surface of the bulb.

**(g)** Compare the temperature of the bulb to the temperature you might experience on a really hot day in Santa Clara.

**(h)** The bulb is replaced by one identical to the first bulb except that it radiates 10 times more power. Find the maximum speed of photoelectrons liberated from the triskaidekium.

**(i)** The bulb is replaced by one identical to the first bulb except that it radiates photons that have wavelength 310 nm. Find the maximum speed of photoelectrons liberated from the triskaidekium.


##3.
A neutral $$B$$ meson can decay to two charged D mesons ($$B^0\to{D}^+D^-$$), and also to a neutral $$D$$ together with a photon ($$B^0\to{D}^0\gamma$$). The masses of these particles are (approximately): $$B^0-5280\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$; $$D^+/D^--1862\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$; $$D^0-1865\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$. (**NOTE**: all answers are numbers.)

**(a)** A $$B^0$$ zips through the lab at a speed of $$0.55c$$. Find the total energy of the $$B^0$$ as measured in the rest frame of the $$B^0$$.

**(b)** A $$B^0$$ zips through the lab at a speed of $$0.55c$$, then $$B^0\to{D}^+D^-$$: Call the direction in which the $$B^0$$ is traveling the positive $$x$$-direction. In the rest frame of the $$B^0$$, the $$D^+$$ goes in the positive $$x$$ direction and the $$D^-$$ goes in the negative $$x$$ direction. Find the speed and direction of the $$D^-$$ particle as measured in the lab frame.

**(c)** $$B^0\to{D}^0\gamma$$: Find the speed of the $$D^0$$ in the rest frame of the $$B^0$$.
