# md2013

##1.
When built in space dock, the length of an Arcturian star cruiser is measured to be $$1000\:\text{m}$$. The space dock is essentially a long open cylinder that is $$5000\:\text{m}$$ long. All answers except (b) ii. are numbers.

**(a)** Traffic control on the space dock measures the speed of the A’aZ, an approaching Arcturian star
cruiser, to be $$0.7c$$.
- **(i)** What does traffic control measure as the length (in $$\text{m}$$) of the A’aZ?
- **(ii)** The A’aZ flies into one end of the space dock and comes out the other. According to traffic control, how much time (in $$\text{s}$$) elapses between the moment when the front of the A’aZ enters the space dock and when the front leaves the other end?
- (iii) The A’aZ flies into one end of the space dock and comes out the other. According to an observer on the A’aZ, how much time (in $$\text{s}$$) elapses between the moment when the front of the A’aZ enters the space dock and when the front leaves the other end?

**(b)** Traffic control observes the B’aZ and the C’aZ, two Arcturian star cruisers, approaching along the same path, and measures the speed of the B’aZ to be $$0.5c$$ and the speed of the C’aZ to be $$0.2c$$.
 - **(i)** What does an observer on the C’aZ measure as the length (in $$\text{m}$$) of the B’aZ?
- **(ii)** Compared to the length that the observer on C’aZ measures as length of the B’aZ, does an observer on the B’aZ measure the length of the C’aZ as longer, shorter, or the same? Give a VERY BRIEF reason for your answer.


##2.
The rest mass of certain particles are (approximately): $$D^0$$: $$1865\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$; $$K^+,K^-$$: $$494\:\text{MeV}/c^2; $$\pi^+$$: $$140\:\text{MeV}/c^2; $$\mu^+$$: $$106\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$; $$nu_{\mu}$$: $$0\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$. **NOTE**: all answers are numbers.

**(a)** A neutral $$D$$ particle is observed to decay to two charged kaons ($$D^0\to{K^+}K^-$$). The decay is observed in the rest frame of the $$D^0$$.
 - **(i)** What is the rest energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of each of the kaons?
 - **(ii)** What is the kinetic energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of each of the kaons?
 - **(iii)** What is the total energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of each of the kaons?
 - **(iv)** What is the speed (in terms of $$c$$) of each of the kaons?

**(b)** A charged pion is seen to decay to a charged muon and a neutrino ($$\pi^+\to\mu^+\nu_{\mu}$$). The decay is observed in the rest frame of the $$\pi^+$$.
 - **(i)** What is the total energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of the $$\mu^+$$?
 - **(ii)** What is the total energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of the $$\nu_{\mu}$$?
*Hint*: The answers to the two parts of question (b) are NOT the same.


##3.
An x-ray of energy $$300\:\text{keV} Compton scatters off an electron (initially at rest) and leaves the interaction with $$200\:\text{keV} of energy. All answers should be numbers.

**(a)** Find the speed (in terms of c, give 4 digits after the decimal) of the electron after the
interaction.

**(b)** Find the angle, relative to the direction of the incident x-ray, that the electron leaves the interaction.


##4.
The heating filament of a 2500-W space heater is a uniform wire $$3.000\:\text{m}$$ long and $$0.0002\:\text{m}$$ in radius. (It’s wound up like a spring when in the heater.) All answers should be numbers.

**(a)** When the heater is on full blast, at what temperature (in kelvin) is the surface of the filament? Assume that the filament radiates like a blackbody.

**(b)** At $$20\:\text{m}$$ from the heater, where the filament can be treated as a point source radiating its power equally in all directions, how much energy per second (in $$\text{J}/\text{s}$$) falls on a disk of radius $$3\text{cm}$$? The disk is oriented so that the power of the heater hits it directly on its circular surface. Also, assume no energy absorption occurs between the heater and the disk.

