# mt2004

##1.
Numbers...

**(a)** Find the wavelength in Angtroms of a photon of energy $$E=2\:\text{eV}$$.

**(b)** Is the photon from part (a) in the visible? How do you know?

**(c)** The photon from part (a) strikes a metal surface; the work function of the metal is $$\phi_0=0.5\:\text{eV}$$. What is the maximum kinetic energy in $$\text{eV}$$ of an electron liberated in a photoelectric process?

**(d)** A photon of initial wavelength $$\lambda_0=0.05\:\unicode{xC5}$$ undergoes Compton interaction with an electron and scatters at an angle $$\theta=180^{\circ}$$, that it is, it scatters in a direction directly opposite to
its initial direction. What is the wavelength in Angtroms of the scattered photon?

**(e)** What is the kinetic energy in keV of the electron in part (d) after the scatter?

**(f)** What is the relativistic gamma of the electron in part d) after the scatter?


##2.
A rocket which travels at velocity $$v=0.8c$$ (as measured by an earth-bound observer) will travel to the star α-Centauri. α-Centauri is a distance $$D=4.3\:\text{l.y.}$$ from earth.

**(a)** How long (in time) does the trip take as measured by an earth-bound observer?

**(b)** How far (in distance) is α-Centauri from earth, as measured by an observer on the ship?

**(c)** How long (in time) does the trip take as measured by an observer on the ship?

**(d)** Use the Lorentz transformations for distance and time to show that velocity transforms between a frame $$S$$ and a frame $$S’$$ moving with velocity $$\mathbf{V}$$ relative to $$S$$ according to
$$
v_x'=\frac{v_x-\mathbf{V}}{1-\frac{\mathbf{V}}{c^2}v_x}
$$

**(e)** Use the result of part (d) to find the velocity of a beam of laser light aimed back towards the earth from the rocket, as measured by an observer on earth.

 ##3.
The $$\phi$$ particle most often decays to a $$K^+K^-$$ pair. The rest mass of the $$\phi$$ is $$1020\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$; the rest mass of a charged Kaon is $$494\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$. A $$\phi$$ is observed moving through a laboratory at velocity $$v=0.8c$$.

**(a)** What is the kinetic energy of each of the Kaons, as measured from a frame at rest with respect to the $$\phi$$?

**(b)** If the $$K^+$$ moves in the same direction as the original $$\phi$$ direction, in which direction does the $$K^-$$ move after the decay? Explain. If there is no way to know, say so and explain why.

**(c)** What is the velocity of the $$K^+$$ as measured in the rest frame?

**(d)** What is the velocity of the $$K^+$$ as measured in the lab frame?

##4.
In the Bohr model of the atom, an electron exhibits uniform circular motion around a nucleus of Z protons.

**(a)** Follow Bohr’s approach to show that the electron radii are quantized, according to
$$
r_n=\frac{\hbar^2n^2}{m_ekZe^2}
$$
where $$k$$ is the Coulomb constant and $$e$$ is the absolute magnitude of the charge of an electron or proton.

**(b)** Using values found on the first page of the test, find a value for $$k$$ times $$e^2$$.
