# mt2013a

##1.
When built in space dock, the length of an Arcturian star cruiser is measured to be $$1000\:\text{m}$$. The space dock is essentially a long open cylinder that is $$5000\:\text{m}$$ long. All answers except (b) ii. are numbers.

**(a)** Traffic control on the space dock measures the speed of the A’aZ, an approaching Arcturian star
cruiser, to be $$0.7c$$.
- **(i)** What does traffic control measure as the length (in $$\text{m}$$) of the A’aZ?
- **(ii)** The A’aZ flies into one end of the space dock and comes out the other. According to traffic control, how much time (in $$\text{s}$$) elapses between the moment when the front of the A’aZ enters the space dock and when the front leaves the other end?
- **(iii)** The A’aZ flies into one end of the space dock and comes out the other. According to an observer on the A’aZ, how much time (in $$\text{s}$$) elapses between the moment when the front of the A’aZ enters the space dock and when the front leaves the other end?

**(b)** Traffic control observes the B’aZ and the C’aZ, two Arcturian star cruisers, approaching along the same path, and measures the speed of the B’aZ to be $$0.5c$$ and the speed of the C’aZ to be $$0.2c$$.
- **(i)** What does an observer on the C’aZ measure as the length (in $$\text{m}$$) of the B’aZ?
- **(ii)** Compared to the length that the observer on C’aZ measures as length of the B’aZ, does an observer on the B’aZ measure the length of the C’aZ as longer, shorter, or the same? Give a VERY BRIEF reason for your answer.