# **hw02**

## 1.15
Two spaceships are approaching each other.  
1. If the speed of each is $$0.9c$$ relative to Earth, what is the speed of one relative to the other? 
2. If the speed of each relative to Earth is $$30,000\:\text{m}/\text{s}$$ (about 100 times the speed of sound), what is the speed of one relative to the other?


## 1.47(a-d)
Two spaceships, each $$100\:\text{m}$$ long when measured at rest, travel toward each other with speeds of $$0.85c$$ relative to Earth. 
1. How long is each ship as measured by someone on Earth? 
2. How fast is each ship traveling as measured by an observer on the other? 
3. How long is one ship when measured by an observer on the other? 
4. At time $$t=0$$ on Earth, the fronts of the ships are together as they just begin to pass each other.  At what time on Earth are their ends together? 


## 1.56
An interesting paradox has been suggested by *R. Shaw* that goes like this.  A very thin steel plate with a circular hole $$1\:\text{m}$$ in diameter centered on the $$y$$ axis lies parallel to the $$xz$$ plane in frame $$S$$ and moves in the $$+y$$ direction at constant speed $$v_y$$ as illustrated in **Figure 1-45**.  A meter stick lying on the $$x$$ axis moves in the  $$+x$$ direction with $$β=\frac{v}{c}$$.  The steel plate arrives at the $$y=0$$ plane at the same instant that the center of the meter stick reaches the origin of $$S$$.  Since the meter stick is observed by observers in $$S$$ to be contracted, it passes through the $$1\:\text{m}$$ hole in the plate with no problem.   A paradox appears to arise when one considers that an observer in $$S'$$, the rest system of the meter stick, measures the diameter of the hole in the plate to be contracted in the x dimension and, hence, becomes too small to pass the meter stick, resulting in a collision.  Resolve the paradox.  Will there be a collision?

**note**:  Don’t do any math. Just THINK about this question


## 2.3(a,c,d)
An electron of rest energy $$mc^2=0.511\:\text{MeV}$$ moves with respect to the laboratory at speed $$u=0.6c$$.  Find
1. $$\gamma$$ 
2. $$E$$, and 
3. $$E_k$$ 


## 2.4(b,c)
How much energy would be required to accelerate a particle of mass m from rest to a speed of 
2. $$0.9c$$, and 
3. $$0.99c$$? 

Express your answers as multiples of the rest energy.

**note**: 
Also, the ratio of final speeds between (2) and (3) is $$.99/.9=1.1$$.  What is the ratio of the amount of energy required?


## 2.7
A cosmic-ray proton is moving at such a speed that it can travel from the Moon to Earth in $$1.5\:\text{s}$$. 
1. At what fraction of the speed of light is the proton moving? 
2. What is its kinetic energy? 
3. What value would be measured for its mass by an observer in Earth’s reference frame? 
4. What percent error is made in the kinetic energy by using the classical relation? (The Earth-Moon distance is $$3.8\times10^5\:\text{km}$$. Ignore Earth’s rotation.)


## 2.10
1. Compute the rest energy of $$1\:\text{g}$$ of dirt. 
2. If you could convert this energy entirely into electrical energy and sell it for 10 cents per kilowatt-hour, how much money would you get? 
3. If you could power a $$100\:\text{W}$$ lightbulb with the energy, for how long could you keep the bulb lit?

2.11
An electron with rest energy of 0.511 MeV moves with speed u = 0.2c. Find its total energy, kinetic energy, and momentum.

2.15
Suppose that you seal an ordinary 60 W lightbulb and a suitable battery inside a transparent enclosure and suspend the system from a very sensitive balance. 
(a) Compute the change in the mass of the system if the lamp is on continuously for one year at full power. 
(b) What difference, if any, would it make if the inner surface of the container were a perfect reflector?

custom
The neutral kaon particle (K0) has rest mass mK = 498 MeV/c2 and can decay to two charged pions (π+ and π–), each of mass mπ= 140 MeV/c2.  This process can be summarized as K0 → π+ + π– .
(a) A K0 at rest in a physics lab decays to two pions.  Find the energy and speed of the two pions, assuming the decay is symmetric, as observed in the lab.  “Symmetric” means that the two pions go off 180° apart, each with the same energy.
(b) A K0 moving at v = 0.8c relative to the lab decays to two pions.  In a frame at rest with respect to the K0 the pions are emitted symmetrically, and perpendicular to the direction of the path of the K0 path through the lab.  Find the angle (with respect to the direction of the K0) that each pion makes as observed in the lab.  You may find it useful to refer to your answer to part (a).