# hw03

##1.
**custom.1**
The neutral kaon particle ($$K^0$$) has rest mass $$m_K=498\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$ and can decay to two charged pions ($$\pi^+$$ and $$\pi^-$$), each of mass $$m_{\pi}=140\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$.  This process can be summarized as $$K^0\to\pi^++\pi^-$$.

**(a)** A $$K^0 at rest in a physics lab decays to two pions.  Find the energy and speed of the two pions, assuming the decay is symmetric, as observed in the lab. “Symmetric” means that the two pions go off $$180^{\circ}$$ apart, each with the same energy.

**(b)** A $$K^0$$ moving at $$v=0.8c$$ relative to the lab decays to two pions.  In a frame at rest with respect to the $$K^0$$ the pions are emitted symmetrically, and perpendicular to the direction of the path of the $$K^0$$ path through the lab.  Find the angle (with respect to the direction of the $$K^0$$) that each pion makes as observed in the lab.


##2.
**2.56(a)**
An unstable particle of mass $$M$$ decays into two identical particles, each of mass $$m$$. Obtain an expression for the velocities of the two decay particles in the lab frame 

**(a)** if $$M$$ is at rest in the lab and 

**(b)** if $$M$$ has total energy $$4mc^2$$ when it decays and the decay particles move along the direction of $$M$$.


##3.
**3.12(c)**
Find $$m$$ for black body radiation at

**(a)** $$T=3\:\text{K}$$,

**(b)** $$T=300\:\text{K}$$, and

**(c)** $$T=3000\:\text{K}$$.


##4.
**3.15(a)**
As noted in the chapter, the cosmic microwave background radiation fits the Planck equation for a blackbody at $$2.7\:\text{K}$$. 

**(a)** What is the wavelength at the maximum intensity of the spectrum of the background radiation? 

**(b)** What is the frequency of the radiation at the maximum? 

**(c)** What is the total power incident on Earth from the background radiation?

##5.
**3.19**
A particular radiating cavity has the maximum of its spectral distribution of radiated power at a wavelength of $$27.0\:\mu\text{m}$$ (in the infrared region of the spectrum).  The temperature is then changed so that the total power radiated by the cavity doubles. 

**(a)** Compute the new temperature. 

**(b)** At what wavelength does the new spectral distribution have its maximum value?


##6.
**3.20**
A certain very bright star has an effective surface temperature of $$20,000\:\text{K}$$. 

**(a)** Assuming that it radiates as a blackbody, what is the wavelength at which $$u(\lambda)$$ is maximum? 

**(b)** In what part of the electromagnetic spectrum does the maximum lie?


##7.
**3.21**
The energy reaching Earth from the Sun at the top of the atmosphere is $$1.36\times10^3\:\text{W}/\text{m}^2$$, called the solar constant.  Assuming that Earth radiates like a blackbody at uniform temperature, what do you conclude is the equilibrium temperature of Earth?


##8.
**3.22**
Α 40 W incandescent bulb radiates from a tungsten filament operating at $$3300\:\text{K}$$. Assuming that the bulb radiates like a blackbody, 

**(a)** What are the frequency $$f_m$$ and the wavelength $$\lambda_m$$ at the maximum of the spectral distribution? 

**(b)** If fm is a good approximation of the average frequency of the photons emitted by the bulb, about how many photons is the bulb radiating per second? 

**(c)** If you are looking at the bulb from $$5\:\text{m}$$ away, how many photons enter your eye per second? (The diameter of your pupil is about $$5.0\:\text{mm}.)


##9.
**custom.2**
The star α-Klowi has an effective surface temperature of $$5,800\:\text{K}$$ and radius $$6.95\times10^8\:\text{m}$$. How many Watts of power per square meter reach its planet S’ammy that is a distance $$1.5\times10^{11}\text{m}$$ from the star?
