# hw05

##3.34(modified)
x-ray tubes currently used by dentists often have accelerating voltages of $$80\:\text{kV}$$. What is the minimum wavelength of the x-rays they produce?

**Also**: What is the energy in $$\text{eV}$$ and in $$\text{J}$$ of one of these x-rays?


##3.36(modified)
Gamma rays emitted by radioactive nuclei also exhibit measurable Compton scattering. Suppose a $$0.511\:\text{MeV}$$ photon from a positron-electron annihilation scatters at $$110^{\circ}$$ from a free electron.
What are the energies of the scattered photon and the recoiling electron?
Relative to the initial direction of the $$0.511\:\text{MeV}$$ photon, what is the direction of the recoiling electron’s velocity vector?

**NOTE**: there are three questions asked.


## 3.38.
The wavelength of Compton-scattered photons is measured at $$\theta=90^{\circ}$$. If $$\tfrac{\Delta\lambda}{\lambda}$$ is to be $$1$$ percent, what should the wavelength of the incident photon be?


## 3.59
An electron accelerated to $$50\:\text{keV}$$ in an x-ray tube has two successive collisions in being brought to rest in the target, emitting two bremsstrahlung photons in the process. The second photon emitted has a wavelength $$0.095\:\text{nm}$$ longer than the first.

**(a)** What are the wavelengths of the two photons?

**(b)** What was the energy of the electron after emission of the first photon?


## custom.01
Show that the maximum kinetic energy $$K_e$$ that the recoiling electron can carry away from a Compton scattering event is given by
$$
K_e=\frac{hf}{1+\frac{m_ec^2}{2hf_0}}
$$
where $$f_0$$ is the frequency of the incoming photon.

## custom.02
Each series of atomic lines for any element has a shortest and a longest wavelength.

**(a)** Use the Rydberg equation to determine the shortest and longest wavelength in the (hydrogen) Balmer series.

**(b)** Determine the lowest and highest energy of photons in the Balmer series.

**(c)** Google the Balmer series and verify your answers to (a) and (b).

**(d)** Use the Rydberg equation to determine the shortest and longest wavelength in the (hydrogen) Pfund series.

**(e)** Determine the lowest and highest energy of photons in the Pfund series.

**(f)** Google the Pfund series and verify your answers to (d) and (e).


##4.14
Show that Eq. 4-19 for the radius of the first Bohr orbit and Eq. 4-20 for the magnitude of the lowest energy for the hydrogen atom can be written as
$$
\begin{matrix}a_0=\frac{\hbar{c}}{\alpha{m}c^2}=\frac{\lambda_c}{2\pi\alpha}&&E_1=\frac{1}{2}\alpha^2mc^2\end{matrix}
$$
where $$\lambda=\frac{h}{mc}$$ is the Compton wavelength of the electron and $$\alpha=\frac{ke^2}{\hbar{c}}$$ is the fine structure constant. Use these expressions to check the numerical values of the constants $$a_0$$, and $$E_1$$.

**Eq. 4-19**
$$
a_0=\frac{\hbar^2}{mke^2}=0.529\:\unicode{xC5}=0.0529\:\text{nm}
$$

**Eq. 4-20**
$$
\begin{align*}
E_n&=-\frac{kZe^2}{2r_n}=-\frac{kZe^2}{2}\left(\frac{mkZe^2}{n^2\hbar^2}\right)\\
E_n&=-\frac{mk^2Z^2e^4}{2\hbar^2n^2}=-E_0\frac{Z^2}{n^2}\:\:\:\:n=1,\:2,\:3,\cdots
\end{align*}
$$



##4.42(modified)
Geiger and Marsden used $$\alpha$$ particles with $$7.7\:\text{MeV}$$ kinetic energy and found that when they were scattered from thin gold foil, the number observed to be scattered at all angles agreed with Rutherford’s formula. Use this fact to compute an upper limit on the radius of the gold nucleus.
NOTE: Before you start this one, ask yourself whether or not the particle is relativistic.


##custom.03
Rydberg’s equation can be derived using the quantized energy equation in Bohr’s model, as on p. 168 in our book.  Familiarize yourself with this derivation, and then determine a value for the Rydberg constant.  Don’t use $$k$$ and $$e$$ in SI units—instead use $$ke^2=\alpha\hbar{c}$$ as we found in class.

