# hw06

## custom.01
In chemistry you learned the ideal gas law, that $$pV=N_AkT$$. (Pressure, volume, Avagadro’s, Boltzman constant, temperature.) For an ideal gas consisting of hydrogen atoms at $$1\:\text{atm}\:(1.01\times10^5\:\tfrac{\text{N}}{\text{m}^2})$$ and a temperature of $$300\:\text{K}$$,

**(a)** determine the average volume per hydrogen atom and

**(b)** find the ratio of this volume to the volume of a hydrogen atom.


## 5.4
Compute the de Broglie wavelengths of

**(a)** an electron,

**(b)** a proton, and

**(c)** an alpha particle of $$4.5\:\text{keV}$$ kinetic energy.


## 5.9(a)
Compute the wavelength of a cosmic-ray proton whose kinetic energy is

**(a)** $$2\:\text{GeV}$$ and

**(b)** $$200\:\text{GeV}$$.


## 5.31
In one of G. Gamow’s Mr. Tompkins tales, the hero visits a “quantum jungle” where $$h$$ is very large. Suppose that you are in such a place where $$h=50\:\text{J}\cdot\text{s}$$. A cheetah runs past you a few meters away.  The cheetah is $$2\:\text{m}$$ long from nose to tail tip and its mass is $$30\:\text{kg}$$.  It is moving at $$40\:\tfrac{\text{m}}{\text{s}}$$.  What is the uncertainty in the location of the “midpoint” of the cheetah?  Describe in one sentence how the cheetah would
 look different to you than when $$h$$ has its actual value.

> **NOTE**: George Gamov wrote four absolutely terrific books that explore the natural world in a fun, easy-to-read way. The main character is Mr. Tompkins, a bank clerk. In Mr. Tompkins in Wonderland, Mr. Tompkins he sits in on lectures by a famous physics professor at the nearby university but promptly falls asleep. He has many adventures while dreaming, for example, in one dream he finds himself in this quantum jungle in which $$h=50\:\text{J}\cdot\text{s}$$. In another, he finds himself in a world in which the speed of light is $$10\:\text{mph}$$. For this cheetah problem, assume that the uncertainty in momentum is equal to the momentum.


## 5.35
A neutron has a kinetic energy of $$10\:\text{MeV}$$. What size object is necessary to observe neutron diffraction effects?  Is there anything in nature of this size that could serve as a target to demonstrate the wave nature of $$10\:\text{MeV}$$ neutrons?


## 5.40
A particle with a mass of $$4\:\text{g}$$ is moving at $$100\:\tfrac{\text{m}}{\text{s}}$$.  What size aperture would be needed in order to observe diffraction of this particle wave?  Explain why no common object could pass through such an aperture.


## custom.02
A muon (rest mass $$105.7\:\tfrac{\text{MeV}}{c^2}$$) can be captured by a free proton to form “muonic hydrogen.” Find the radius of the first Bohr orbit in muonic hydrogen.


## custom.03
It was originally thought that the one of the fundamental forces in nature — the “strong” force — was carried by the pion, with rest mass about $$140\:\tfrac{\text{MeV}}{c^2}$$.  Take its rest energy to be equivalent to the energy uncertainty, and determine how far a virtual pion could travel moving at $$c$$. This is a rough estimate of the range over which the strong force can act.
