# hw07

## 6.2
Show that $$\Psi(x,t)=Ae^{j(kx-\omega{t})}$$ does not satisfy the time-dependent Schrödinger equation.


## 6.8
Normalize the wave function in Problem 6.2 between $$-a$$ and  $$+a$$.  Why can’t that wave function be normalized between $$-\infty$$ and $$\infty$$?


## 6.10(b),(c)
A particle is in the ground state of an infinite square well potential given by Equation 6.21.  Find the probability of finding the particle in the interval $$\Delta{x}=0.002L$$ at

**(a)** $$x=\tfrac{L}{2}$$

**(b)** $$x=\tfrac{2L}{3}$$, and

**(c)** $$x=L$$. (Since $$\Delta{x}$$ is very small, you need not do any integration.)

> ###### Equation 6.21
$$
V(x)=\begin{cases}0&0<x<L\\\infty&x<0\:\:\:\:\text{and}\:\:\:\:x>L\end{cases}
$$

## 6.16
The wavelength of light emitted by a ruby laser is $$694.3\:\text{nm}$$.  Assuming that the emission of a photon of this wavelength accompanies the transition of an electron from the $$n=2$$ level to the $$n=1$$ level of an infinite square well, compute $$L$$ for the well.


## 6.21(a)
In the early days of nuclear physics before the neutron was discovered, it was thought that the nucleus contained only electrons and protons.  If we consider the nucleus to be a one-dimensional infinite well with $$L=10\:\text{fm}$$ and ignore relativity, compute the ground-state energy for

**(a)** an electron and

**(b)** a proton in the nucleus.

**(c)** Compute the energy difference between the ground state and the first excited state for each particle. (Differences between energy levels in nuclei are found to be typically of the order of $$1\:\text{MeV}$$.)


## 6.53(b)
A particle is in the ground state of an infinite square well potential given by Equation 6-21.  Calculate the probability that the particle will be found in the region

**(a)** $$0<x<\tfrac{1}{2}L$$,

**(b)** $$0<x<\tfrac{1}{3}L$$, and

**(c)** $$0<x<\tfrac{3}{4}L$$.

> ###### Equation 6.21
$$
V(x)=\begin{cases}0&0<x<L\\\infty&x<0\:\:\:\:\text{and}\:\:\:\:x>L\end{cases}
$$


## 6.54(a)

**(a)** Show that for large $$n$$, the fractional difference in energy between state $$n$$ and state $$n+1$$ for a particle in an infinite square well is given approximately by
$$
\frac{E_{n+1}-E_n}{E_n}\approx\frac{2}{n}
$$

**(b)** What is the approximate percentage energy difference between the states $$n_1=1000$$ and $$n_2=1001$$?

**(c)** Comment on how this result is related to Bohr’s correspondence principle.


## custom.01
In the section titled “Step Potential” that starts on page 258 of our book, Tipler and Llewellyn find the reflection and transmission coefficients ($$R$$ and $$T$$) for a beam of particles incident on a step function potential in the case in which the energy of the particles is greater than the step height.  Familiarize yourself with the solution, draw the setup, and write out the solution for $$R$$ and $$T$$.  Note that you will need to fill in the details between equations 6.65 and equations 6.66 and 6.67.
> ###### Equation 6.65
$$
\Psi_{\text{I}}(0)=A+B=\Psi_{\text{II}}(0)=C;\\
k_1A-k_1B=k_2C;
$$

> ###### Equation 6.66 & 6.67
$$
\begin{align*}
B&=\frac{k_1-k_2}{k_1+k_2}A=\frac{E^{\tfrac{1}{2}}-(E-V_0)^{\tfrac{1}{2}}}{E^{\tfrac{1}{2}}+(E-V_0)^{\tfrac{1}{2}}}A\\
C&=\frac{2k_1}{k_1+k_2}A=\frac{2E^{\tfrac{1}{2}}}{E^{\tfrac{1}{2}}+(E-V_0)^{\tfrac{1}{2}}}A
\end{align*}
$$



