# mt2015b

##2.
The work function for a triskaidekium, a new metal alloy, is $$13\times10^{–1}\:\text{eV}$$. A bulb is made by placing a filament inside an opaque spherical enclosure of radius $$0.031\:\text{m}$$; when current runs through the filament the bulb gets hot and radiates $$13\:\text{W}$$, like a black body. A $$1.3\:\text{cm}$$ by $$1.3\:\text{cm}$$ square triskaidekium target is placed $$13\:\text{m}$$ from the bulb so that photons strike the surface at a $$90^{\circ}$$ angle. (**NOTE**: all answers except for (b) and (g) are numbers.)

**(a)** The photons radiated by the bulb are just sufficient to liberate photoelectrons from a smooth, clean triskaidekium surface. Find the wavelength of the photons.

**(b)** Are the photons that radiate from the bulb visible to humans? Explain briefly.

**(c)** Find the maximum speed of photoelectrons liberated from the triskaidekium.

**(d)** Find the number of photons per second radiated from the bulb.

**(e)** Find the number of photons per second that strike the triskaidekium target.

**(f)** Find the temperature of the surface of the bulb.

**(g)** Compare the temperature of the bulb to the temperature you might experience on a really hot day in Santa Clara.

**(h)** The bulb is replaced by one identical to the first bulb except that it radiates 10 times more power. Find the maximum speed of photoelectrons liberated from the triskaidekium.

**(i)** The bulb is replaced by one identical to the first bulb except that it radiates photons that have wavelength 310 nm. Find the maximum speed of photoelectrons liberated from the triskaidekium.
