# f2012

## 1.
A certain electron and another more massive particle each have kinetic energy equal to $$8.75\:\text{keV}$$.  A certain proton has a de Broglie wavelength of $$3.48\:\text{nm}$$.

**(a)** Find the de Broglie wavelength of the electron.

**(b)** Is the de Boglie wavelength of the other particle, less than, the same as, or greater than the de Broglie wavelength of the electron. Explain briefly.

**(c)** Find the speed of the proton.

**(d)** If a 100-g marble is to have the same de Broglie wavelength as the proton, find its speed.


## 2.
Please put the letter of your answer for each part in the box.

**(a)** Identify the $$\beta^+$$ decay of $$^{40}{\text{K}}$$
1. .$$^{40}\text{K}\:\to\:^{40}\text{Ar}+e^++\nu_e$$
2. .$$^{40}\text{K}\:\to\:^{36}\text{Ar}+e^++\nu_e$$
3. .$$^{40}\text{K}\:\to\:^{40}\text{Cl}+e^++\nu_e$$
4. .$$^{40}\text{K}\:\to\:^{40}\text{Ca}+e^++\nu_e$$
5. .$$^{40}\text{K}\:\to\:^{40}\text{K}+e^++\nu_e$$

**(b)** The nucleus of a $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ atom contains 38 protons and 52 neutrons.  Given $$m_p$$ is the mass of a proton and $$m_n$$ is the mass of a neutron, how does the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ nucleus compare with $$38m_p+52m_n$$?
1. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ equals the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ nucleus.
2. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ is greater than the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$.
3. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ is less than the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$.
4. There's no way to tell without knowing the details of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$.
5. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ equals the mass of the  $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ unless a Compton scatter occurs.

**(c)** A beam of electrons of energy $$15\:\text{eV}$$ approaches a narrow barrier of height $$5\:\text{eV}$$. Which is true?

1. Some electrons are reflected by the barrier, some are not.
2. No electrons are reflected by the barrier.
3. All electrons are reflected by the barrier.
4. Electrons can be reflected only if the wave function contains a sine function.
5. 3 times as many electrons go past the barrier as are reflected.

**(d)** A photon of initial wavelength $$\lambda_0$$ undergoes Compton scattering. Which is true?
1. The wavelength of the scattered photon is less than $$\lambda_0$$.
2. The wavelength of the scattered photon is greater than $$\lambda_0$$.
3. The wavelength of the scattered photon is equal to or greater than $$\lambda_0$$.
4. The wavelength of the scattered photon depends on the scattering atom.
5. The wavelength of the scattered photon could be less than, equal to, or greater than $$\lambda_0$$.

**(e)** A photon cannot decay into an electron and a positron in free space. Which best explains why this is true?
1. The $$e^-$$ and $$e^+$$ have opposite charge.
2. Matter-antimatter balance would not be maintained in such a process.
3. The binding energy would be negative.
4. The $$e^-$$ and $$e^+$$ both have mass, but the photon is massless.
5. A frame could be found in which the $$e^-$$ and $$e^+$$ have equal and opposite momentum.


**(f)** An atomic clock keeps perfect time when it’s on your desk. In another circumstance you see the clock running slowly. Which must be the case?
1. The clock is in motion and you are at rest.
2. You are in motion and the clock is at rest.
3. The clock and you are both moving, and in the same direction.
4. The clock are you are both moving, but in opposite directions.
5. The clock and you are in motion relative to each other.

**(g)** Identify the $$\alpha$$-decay of $$^{234}_{92}\text{U}$$:
1. .$$^{234}\text{U}\:\to\:^{230}\text{U}+\alpha$$
2. .$$^{234}\text{U}\:\to\:^{230}\text{Th}+\alpha$$
3. .$$^{234}\text{U}\:\to\:^{232}\text{U}+\alpha$$
4. .$$^{234}\text{U}\:\to\:^{232}\text{Ra}+\alpha$$
5. .$$^{234}\text{U}\:\to\:^{230}\text{Ra}+\alpha$$

**(h)** A luteium nucleus has 71 protons. Which is true?
1. The most stable isotope of luteium has exactly 71 neutrons.
2. The most stable isotope of luteium has no more than 71 neutrons.
3. The most stable isotope of luteium has more than 71 neutrons.
4. The most stable isotope of luteium could have less than or more than 71 neutrons.
5. There can be no stable isotope of luteium.

**(i)** Scientists announce the discovery of a process in which a kaon decays to pions according to $$K^+\to\pi^+\pi^-\pi^0$$.  They must be wrong—this could never happen because
1. Energy could not be conserved in this process.
2. Charge could not be conserved in this process.
3. Momentum could not be conserved in this process.
4. Mass could not be conserved in this process.
5. Relativistic gamma could not be conserved in this process.

**(j)** A star of surface temperature $$T$$ radiates a certain amount of power $$P$$. Which is true?
1. The total power received by any of the star’s planets is $$P$$.
2. The temperature on the surface of any of the star’s planets is $$T$$.
3. If the surface of the star is a blackbody, $$P$$ is equal to the product of the Stefan-Boltzmann constant $$\sigma$$ and $$T^4$$.
4. The total energy per second that crosses a spherical boundary that is 10 times the radius of the star and centered on the center of the star is $$P$$.
5. Outside the star the temperature at any distance $$r$$ from the center of the star falls as $$\tfrac{1}{r^2}$$.


## 3.
An electron is trapped within the region $$-\tfrac{L}{2}<x<+\tfrac{L}{2}$$.  The potential is equal to $$0$$ in this region and is infinite everywhere else.

**(a)** The ground state time-independent wave function for this electron is $$\phi(x)=A\cos{\left(\sqrt{\tfrac{2mE}{\hbar^2}}x\right)}$$, where $$m$$ is the mass of the electron.  Find $$A$$ in terms of $$L$$ and any other parameters necessary.

**(b)** Find an expression for the energy of the ground state in terms of $$L$$ and any other parameters necessary.

**(c)** Determine a value (a number, in $$\text{eV}$$) of the ground state energy if $$L$$ is equal to $$0.2\:\text{nm}$$.

**(d)** Find the probability of finding the electron in the range $$-\tfrac{L}{3}<x<+\tfrac{L}{3}$$.  Your answer should be a number.

**(e)** Write down an expression for the wave function of the first excited state, and briefly justify your answer.


## 4.
We uncovered a semi-empirical expression for the binding energy $$E_B$$ of a nucleus as function of its $$N$$, $$Z$$, and $$A$$:

$$
E_B=a_1A-a_2A^{\tfrac{2}{3}}-a_3\frac{Z^2}{a^{\tfrac{1}{3}}}-a_4\frac{(N-Z)^2}{A}-a_5O(N,\:Z)A^{-\tfrac{1}{2}}
$$

where the lower case a values are constants, and $$O(N,\:Z)$$ equals $$-1$$ if both $$N$$ and $$Z$$ are even, $$+1$$ if both are odd, and $$0$$ if one is odd and the other even.  Determine a value (a number, in $$\text{eV}$$) for the $$a_3$$ coefficient by considering the difference in the binding energies of $$^{8}\text{Li}$$ (lithium-8) and $$^{8}\text{B}$$ (boron-8).  You may find useful data on the last page.


## 5.
All answers are numbers. You may find useful data on the last page of the test.

**(a)** Find a typical value (in $$\text{eV}$$) for the energy of a visible photon.

**(b)** Find the relativistic $$\gamma$$ of an proton with kinetic energy $$K=500\:\text{MeV}$$.

**(c)** A neutral phi ($$\phi$$) at rest decays to two charged kaons: $$\phi\:\to\:K^+K^-$$. Find the kinetic energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of each kaon.

**(d)** $$^{218}\text{Po}$$ undergoes alpha decay to $$^{214}\text{Pb}$$ with a half-life of $$3.8$$ days. A sample containing $$2\times10^6\:\:^{218}\text{Po}$$ atoms is placed in an experiment. About how many $$^{218}\text{Po}$$ atoms will be present after $$20$$ days?

**(e)** Estimate ratio of the volume of one of the largest nuclei to the volume of one of the smaller nuclei.
