# f2011

## 1.
An electron is trapped within the region $$0<x<L$$. The potential is equal to $$0$$ in this region and is infinite everywhere else.

**(a)** Write the time-independent Schrödinger equation as it applies to the region $$0<x<L$$.

**(b)** A general solution to the equation in part a) can have the form $$\phi(x)=A\sin{(\omega^2x)}+B\cos{(\omega^2x)}$$, where $$A$$ and $$B$$ are constants.  Using boundary conditions and the normalization requirement, find expressions for $$A$$ and $$B$$.

**(c)** Find an expression for $$\omega$$ in terms of $$m$$, the mass of an electron, $$E$$, the energy of the trapped electron, and  $$\hbar$$. By “find” I mean, derive—don’t just write down the answer.

**(d)** Show that the energy states for this trapped electron are given by $$E=\tfrac{n^2\pi^2\hbar^2}{2m_eL^2}$$.


## 2.
Please put the letter of your answer for each part in the box.

**(a)** Identify the $$\beta^+$$ decay of $$^{40}{\text{K}}$$
1. .$$^{35}\text{S}\:\to\:^{35}\text{P}+e^-+\bar{\nu}_e$$
2. .$$^{35}\text{S}\:\to\:^{36}\text{P}+e^-+\bar{\nu}_e$$
3. .$$^{35}\text{S}\:\to\:^{35}\text{Cl}+e^-+\bar{\nu}_e$$
4. .$$^{35}\text{S}\:\to\:^{36}\text{Cl}+e^-+\bar{\nu}_e$$
5. .$$^{35}\text{S}\:\to\:^{39}\text{Cl}+e^-+\bar{\nu}_e$$

**(b)** The nucleus of a $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ atom contains 38 protons and 52 neutrons.  Given $$m_p$$ is the mass of a proton and $$m_n$$ is the mass of a neutron, how does the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ nucleus compare with $$38m_p+52m_n$$?
1. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ equals the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ nucleus.
2. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ is greater than the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$.
3. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ is less than the mass of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$.
4. There's no way to tell without knowing the details of the $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$.
5. $$38m_p+52m_n$$ equals the mass of the  $$^{90}\text{Sr}$$ unless a Compton scatter occurs.

**(c)** A beam of electrons of energy $$15\:\text{eV}$$ approaches a narrow barrier of height $$5\:\text{eV}$$. Which is true?
1.Some electrons are reflected by the barrier, some are not.
2. No electrons are reflected by the barrier.
3. All electrons are reflected by the barrier.
4. Electrons can be reflected only if the wave function contains a sine function.
5. $$15\:\text{eV}$$ equals $$3\times5\:\text{eV}$$ times as many electrons go past the barrier as are reflected.

**(d)** A photon of initial wavelength $$\lambda_0$$ undergoes Compton scattering. Which is true?
1. The wavelength of the scattered photon is less than $$\lambda_0$$.
2. The wavelength of the scattered photon is greater than $$\lambda_0$$.
3. The wavelength of the scattered photon is equal to or greater than $$\lambda_0$$.
4. The wavelength of the scattered photon depends on the scattering atom.
5. The wavelength of the scattered photon could be less than, equal to, or greater than $$\lambda_0$$.

**(e)** A photon cannot decay into an electron and a positron in free space. Which best explains why this is true?
1. The $$e^-$$ and $$e^+$$ have opposite charge.
2. Matter-antimatter balance would not be maintained in such a process.
3. The binding energy would be negative.
4. The $$e^-$$ and $$e^+$$ both have mass, but the photon is massless.
5. A frame could be found in which the $$e^-$$ and $$e^+$$ have equal and opposite momentum.


## 3.
A certain (very strange) particle exists only in the region $$-\tfrac{a}{2}<x<+\tfrac{a}{2}$$. Its wave function is $$\phi(x)=A\tfrac{x}{a}$$, where $$A$$ the normalization constant.  Find the probability of measuring the particle’s position to be in the range $$0<x<+\tfrac{a}{4}$$.  Your answer should be a number, for example, $$15.6\:\%$$. ($$15.6\:\%$$ is NOT the actual answer, it’s only an example of what your answer should look like.)


## 4.
A new force is discovered that allows an electron to be bound to an "$$\Xi$$ particle" to form an "$$\Xi$$ atom." The force between the $$\Xi$$ and the electron is $$F=-br$$.  (The minus sign means it’s an attractive force.) According to the paper published in Physics Review Letters, $$b$$ equals $$\tfrac{a\hbar{c}}{a_0^2}$$ where $$a_0$$ is the Bohr radius, $$\alpha$$ is the fine structure constant, $$c$$ is the speed of light in vacuum, and is Planck’s constant divided by $$2\pi$$.

**(a)** A professor tells you that the expression for $$b$$ in the paper is wrong, off by either a factor of $$a_0$$ or $$c$$. Use dimensional analysis to determine whether the expression for $$b$$ could be correct, and if not, correct it.

**(b)** Given that angular momentum is quantized in units of $$\hbar$$ , that is, $$L=n\hbar$$, find an expression for the radii of electron orbits that shows these radii are quantized.  Assume circular orbits.

**(c)** Find the value (in $$\text{nm}$$) of the radius of the smallest orbit.


## 5.
All answers are numbers. You may find useful data on the last page of the test.

**(a)** Find a typical value (in $$\text{eV}$$) for the energy of a visible photon.

**(b)** Find the de Broglie wavelength (in $$\text{nm}$$) of an electron with kinetic energy $$K=20\:\text{eV}$$.

**(c)** Find the relativistic $$\gamma$$ of an electron with kinetic energy $$K=800\:\text{keV}$$.

**(d)** A neutral phi ($$\phi$$) at rest decays to two charged kaons: $$\phi\to{K}^+K^-$$. Find the kinetic energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of each kaon.

**(e)** Charged pions have a half-life of $$\tau_{1/2}=1.77\times10^{-8}\:\text{s}$$.  A beam of pions is created in a lab with measured speed $$V_{\text{lab}}=0.900\:c$$. What percentage of the beam of pions makes it to the other end of the 100-m long beam pipe?


## 6.
All answers are numbers. You may find useful data on the last page of the test.

**(a)** Two $$^{7}\text{Li}$$ fuse together to form $$^{14}\text{C}$$. How much energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) is released? (Yes, this is a fusion reaction, and no, we didn’t study fusion. But the physics in this problem is 100% within what we studied; no specific knowledge of fusion is required.)

**(b)** Find the binding energy (in $$\text{MeV}$$) of the nucleus of a $$^{235}\text{U}$$ atom.

**(c)** $$^{218}\text{Po}$$ undergoes alpha decay to $$^{214}\text{Pb}$$ with a half-life of 3.8 days. A sample containing $$2\times10^{6}$$

**(d)** $$^{218}\text{Po}$$ atoms is placed in an experiment. About how many $$^{218}\text{Po}$$ atoms will be present after 20 days?

