# mt2016b

## 2.
The R-on, of the rest mass $$m_R=40.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$, the S-on, of the rest mass $$m_S=10.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$, the T-on, of rest mass $$m_T=30.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$, and the U-on, of rest mass $$m_U=0\:\text{MeV}/c^2$$ are particles in an alternate universe. (Yes, the U-on has zero rest mass.)  **NOTE**: all answers should be a number with appropriate units.

**(a)** A neutroal R-on decays symettrically to two charged S-ons: $$R^0\to{S}^++S^-$$. Find the speed of one of the S-ons as observed in the rrest frame of the R-on.

**(b)** A charged R-on zooming through the lab at speed $$V$$ decays to a T-on and a U-on:  $$R^+\to{T}^++U^0$$. The U-on leaves the decay in the exact same direction of the R-on. It is observed (in the lab frame) that the velocity of the T-on is zero.  Find the speed $$V$$ of the R-on through the lab.  **NOTE**: the T-on and U-on do not carry the same amount of energy away from the decay.

$$
\begin{matrix}
m_R=40.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2;&m_S=10.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2\\
&m_T=30.00\:\text{MeV}/c^2&m_U=0\:\text{MeV}/c^2
\end{matrix}\\
$$
--------
#### 2(a)
######**(a)** A neutroal R-on decays symettrically to two charged S-ons: $$R^0\to{S}^++S^-$$. Find the speed of one of the S-ons as observed in the rrest frame of the R-on.

$$
R^0\to{S}^++S^-\:\:\:\:\\
\text{rest frame in }R^0:
\left\{\begin{matrix}
E_i=E_{0,R}\\
E_f=E_{S}+E_{S}
\end{matrix}\right\}
$$

$$
\begin{align*}
E_i&=E_f\\
E_{0,R}&=2E_{S}\\\vdots\\
&\left\{\begin{matrix}E_{S}=\gamma{E}_{0,S};&\gamma=\frac{E_S}{E_{0,S}};&\mathbf{V}=c\left(\frac{\gamma^2-1}{\gamma^2}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}}\end{matrix}\right\}\\\vdots\\
E_S&=\frac{1}{2}E_{0,R}=\frac{1}{2}(40\:\text{MeV})=20\:\text{MeV}\\
\gamma&=\frac{E_{S}}{E_{0,S}}=\frac{(20\:\text{MeV})}{(10\:\text{MeV})}=2;\\
v&=c\left(\frac{\gamma^2-1}{\gamma^2}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}}=c\left(\frac{(2)^2-1}{(2)^2}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}}=0.866c;
\end{align*}
$$

--------
#### 2(b)
######**(b)** A charged R-on zooming through the lab at speed $$V$$ decays to a T-on and a U-on:  $$R^+\to{T}^++U^0$$. The U-on leaves the decay in the exact same direction of the R-on. It is observed (in the lab frame) that the velocity of the T-on is zero.  Find the speed $$V$$ of the R-on through the lab.  **NOTE**: the T-on and U-on do not carry the same amount of energy away from the decay.
$$
R^0\to{S}^++S^-\\
\text{rest frame in }R^0:
\left\{\begin{matrix}
E_i=E_{0,R}&p_i=0\\
E_f=E_{T}+E_{U}&p_f=p_T+p_U
\end{matrix}\right\}
$$
$$
\\\vdots\\\begin{matrix}
E_i=E_f&&p_i=p_f\\
E_{0,R}=E_{T}+E_{U}&&0=p_T+p_U
\end{matrix}\\\vdots\\
$$
$$
\begin{align*}
p_T&=-p_U\\
(p_T)^2&=(-p_U)^2\\
&\left<\begin{matrix}E^2=p^2c^2+m_0^2c^4;&&p^2=\frac{E^2-m_0^2c^4}{c^2}\end{matrix}\right>\\
\frac{E_T^2-m_{0,T}^2c^4}{c^2}&=\frac{E_U^2-\underline{m_{0,U}^2}c^4}{c^2},\:\:\:\:\left<m_U=0\:\text{MeV}/c^2\right>\\
&=\frac{E_U^2}{c^2}\\
E_T^2-m_{0,T}^2c^4&=E_U^2;\:\:\:\:\left<\begin{matrix}E_{0,R}=E_{T}+E_{U},&E_{U}=E_{0,R}-E_{T}\end{matrix}\right>\\
E_T^2-m_{0,T}^2c^4&=(E_{0,R}-E_{T})^2\\
&=E_{0,R}^2-2E_{0,R}E_{T}+E_{T}^2\\
-m_{0,T}^2c^4-E_{0,R}^2&=-2E_{0,R}E_{T}\\
E_T&=\frac{m_{0,T}^2c^4+E_{0,R}^2}{2E_{0,R}}=\frac{(30\:\text{Mev}/c^2)^2c^4+(40\:\text{Mev}/c^2)^2c^4}{2(40\:\text{MeV})}\\
&=31.25\:\text{MeV}\\
\\\vdots\\
&\left\{\begin{matrix}E_{T}=\gamma{E}_{0,T};&\gamma=\frac{E_T}{E_{0,T}};&\mathbf{V}=c\left(\frac{\gamma^2-1}{\gamma^2}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}}\end{matrix}\right\}\\\vdots\\
E_S&=\frac{1}{2}E_{0,R}=\frac{1}{2}(40\:\text{MeV})=20\:\text{MeV}\\
\gamma_T&=\frac{E_T}{E_{0,T}}=\frac{(31.25\:\text{MeV})}{(30\:\text{MeV})}=1.042\\
\mathbf{V}&=c\left(\frac{\gamma^2-1}{\gamma^2}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}}\\
&=c\left(\frac{(1.042)^2-1}{(1.042)^2}\right)^{\frac{1}{2}}\\
&=0.280c;
\end{align*}
$$
