# mt2016c

##3.
When heated to a temperature of $$9876\:\text{K}$$, a sphere of radius $$10^{-3}\:\text{m}$$ radiates like a blackbody.  **NOTE**: all answers should be a number with appropriate units.

**(a)** Determine the power radiated by the sphere.

**(b)** A $$2.000\:\text{cm}$$ by $$2.000\:\text{cm}$$ target is placed a distance $$1.234\:\text{m}$$ from the sphere.  How many Joules of energy per second strike the target?

**(c)** Another glowing sphere is found to radiate $$6540\:\text{W}$$. Find the number of photons emitted per second from the sphere, assuming that the photons emitted from the sphere can be taken to all be of wavelegnth $$293.0\:\text{nm}$$

$$
\begin{matrix}
T_{\alpha}=9876\:\text{K};&r_{\alpha}=10^{-3}:\text{m};
\end{matrix}
$$
---------
#### 3(a)
######**(a)** Determine the power radiated by the sphere.

$$
\begin{align*}
P_{\alpha}&=(R_{\alpha})(SA_{\alpha})\\
&\left<\begin{matrix}R=\sigma{T}^4,&&\underset{\text{Stefan-Boltzmann}}{\sigma=5.67\times10^{-8}\:\frac{\text{W}}{\text{m}^2}\frac{1}{\text{K}^4}}\end{matrix}\right>\\
&=(\sigma{T_{\alpha}}^4)(4\pi{r}_\alpha^2)\\
&=\left(5.67\times10^{-8}\:\frac{\text{W}}{\text{m}^2}\frac{1}{\text{K}^4}\right)(9876\:\text{K})^4(4\pi)(10^{-3}\:\text{m})^2\\
&=6678\:\text{W}
\end{align*}
$$

---------
#### 3(b)
######**(b)** A $$2.000\:\text{cm}$$ by $$2.000\:\text{cm}$$ target is placed a distance $$1.234\:\text{m}$$ from the sphere.  How many Joules of energy per second strike the target?

$$
\begin{matrix}
r_{d}=1.234\:\text{m};
\end{matrix}\\
$$
$$
\begin{align*}
P_{\alpha}&=P_{\text{target}}=\left(R_{\text{target}}\right)\left(SA_{\text{target}}\right)\\
R_{\text{target}}&=\frac{P_{\text{target}}}{SA_{\text{target}}}=\frac{P_{\alpha}}{\left(4\pi{r}_d^2\right)}=\frac{(6678\:\text{W})}{(4\pi)(1.234\:\text{m})^2}\\
&=348.997\:\frac{\text{W}}{\text{m}^2}\\
P_{\text{actual}}&=(R_{\text{target}})(A_{\text{target}})=(348.997\:\frac{\text{W}}{\text{m}^2})(0.02\:\text{m})^2\\
&=0.1396\:\text{W};
\end{align*}
$$

---------
#### 3(c)
######**(c)** Another glowing sphere is found to radiate $$6540\:\text{W}$$. Find the number of photons emitted per second from the sphere, assuming that the photons emitted from the sphere can be taken to all be of wavelegnth $$293.0\:\text{nm}$$

$$
\begin{matrix}
P_{\beta}=6540\:\text{W};&&\lambda_{\beta}=293.0\:text{nm}
\end{matrix}\\
$$
$$
\begin{align*}
E_{\beta}&=hf_{\beta}=h\frac{c}{\lambda_{\beta}}\\
&\left<hc=(4.14\times10^{-15}\:\text{eV}\cdot{\text{s}})(3.0\times10^8\:\tfrac{\text{m}}{\text{s}})=1242\times10^{9}\:text{eV}\:\text{m}\right>\\
&=\frac{(1242\:\text{eV}\:\text{nm})}{(293\:\text{nm})}=4.23\:\text{eV}\\
&=4.23\:\text{eV}\cdot\frac{1.602\times10^{-19}\:\text{J}}{1\:\text{eV}}\\
&=6.780\times10^{-19}\:\text{J};\\
\frac{\#}{\text{s}}&=\frac{P\left[\frac{\text{J}}{\text{s}}\right]}{E\left[\text{J}\right]}=\frac{\left(6540\:\frac{\text{J}}{\text{s}}\right)}{\left(6.780\times10^{-19}\:\text{J}\right)}\\
&=9.646\times10^{21}\:\frac{\#\text{photons}}{\text{s}}
\end{align*}
$$
